As developers,
we do a lot of debugging, a lot.
I feel like most of my work is debugging.
And it's pretty important to know what
tools there are available for this.
The main thing is basically being
able to launch the Debug menu.
Now if you're on a device,
what you do is while the app is open,
you shake the device like this and
then you'll see a Debug menu like this.
It feels very silly if you have
a room full of expert developers, and
everyone's like.
[LAUGH] But yeah,
that's literally how you do it.
If you're on an Android emulator,
you use Cmd + M on a Mac,
or Ctrl + M if you're on Windows and
Linux.
And then on an IOS simulator,
you use Cmd + D.
So if I do Cmd + D, I get the Debug menu.
And then same for Android,
if I do Cmd + M, I get the Debug menu.
One thing to note is if you're swapping
between them, Cmd + M in IOS is minify.
So if I do Cmd + M here, bye!
It's very annoying.
Cool, so let's look at
the options that we get here.
The main option is reload.
Now, the newest React Native has
hot reloading on by default.
So if you added something, it will
automatically get transferred in your app,
which is great.
But sometimes you might have
to turn hot reloading off or
you have to explicitly reload.
So reloading is the main thing
that you probably use this for and
what this does is that it will
redownload the JavaScript bundle.
And because reloading is
such a frequent thing to do,
you can also use Cmd + R to do this.
It doesn't work on Android as it does.
Now the other thing that you
can do is you can debug.
So I'm gonna move this to the other
screen so you can see it better.
If I press on Debug, it will open a React
Native debugger, which is basically this.
You'll see it's on local host 8081.
It says debugger UI.
And now what you do is you open
the inspector as you would on a web page,
and then you have a console here.
So anything you actually add to it, if
you use console log to log something out,
it actually appears here.
Yeah, let's try this.
So in your app,
don't worry about what it returns,
whether you're using React Native or not,
just go just above where the return is and
do a console log.
Cool, so now notice that this
appeared in our console.
And if I refresh.
I have so many versions of these open,
they're getting a bit confused.
Okay, there it is.
And one thing that's interesting to try
out, that if you use a different console
properties like warn or error,
they actually display in different things.
So try using console warn instead and
you'll notice that this comes
up as little yellow box warning.
And if you use console.error,
you get this full screen error.
So one thing to note that when you're
first starting up with React Native,
if you this black screen with the red top,
it looks really terrifying but
actually it's just a console error.
It usually means that
something's going wrong,
but it's not the end of the world.
And finally, let's have a look at
the other options that we have here.
So I'm gonna stop debugging, so
the other thing we can do is
you can choose Show Inspector.
Now I don't use this very often
because I haven't found it very handy
on mobile screens, but basically it
works the same as inspection on the web.
So you can click on things and
you can see some positioning information.
You can turn it off by doing Cmd + D,
and hide inspector.
And the other thing that you
might wanna do is you might wanna
disable fast refresh.
So this refreshes as you type which
might feel quite jarring to some people.
So you can always disable or
enable it as necessary.
Your options are quite advanced, but feel
free to check them out on your spare time.
The ones that I use most often
are basically reload and debugger.